## Polygon Protocol Governance Call (2023-11-02 16:04 GMT) - Transcript


### Attendees
Anton Gaev, Daniel Gretzke, David Silverman, Dimitri Nikolaros, Dogan Alpaslan, Fireflies.ai Notetaker Michel, Frisson, George Serntedakis, Harry Rook, Ivan Bjelajac, Jason W | Alchemy, Jerome de Tychey, Jesper Nielsen, Joonkyo Kim, Jordi Baylina, Justice Conder, Konstantin Ivanov, Krzysztof UrbaÅ„ski, Mateusz Rzeszowski, Parvez Shaikh, Paul Gebheim, Sam Martin, Sandeep Sreenath, Tiago - Stakin, Tobias Geiger, Vincent Taglia, WebDev StakeWorks, Zaki Manian

# Transcript

**This editable transcript was computer-generated and might contain errors. People can also change the text after it was created.**

**Harry Rook:** Welcome everyone to PPGC number 11. It says that the agenda for today. We've got a new segment at the start. So we're going to be doing some feedback from the roll calls, which is an ethereum layer 2, standard body for rip proposals. After that, we'll do some up on the agra hard fork as well as pip 25 and 19 progression as well after this we'll do some more for looking updates on the Cancun, thoughts around what's going to be considered for inclusion on that one. 

**David Silverman:** Hello  everyone great to see folks again. there was a new initiative started through the EF and the L2 Community to establish a new kind of subgroup of the ethereum product management group similar to all core devs. It's called roll call. It includes all of the roll-up operators as well as many other folks building in the L2 space and that includes the polygonne community many topics get discussed in there. Primarily the creation of what are being called RIPs. Although the name might change or role of improvement proposals. These are optional additions to the evm that basically the L2s to agree to standardize on.
A lot more meta-discussion has been occurring and so, as the polygon ecosystem is an L2. We're gonna start adding a quick review of what was discussed at roll call into the ppgc to make sure that folks are aware of what's going on also strongly encourage you to attend real call. If a relevant and you want to discuss kind of some of the general settings standard setting as well. As you know, the new kind of rips that are being created to extend the evm. Please feel free to reach out to yourself to Harry one of the polygon governance team we can get you invited into the discussion group inside the research for the main one, the first was discussion was just getting real call set up, requests for comments on schedule and timing scheduling the first in-person meeting at L2 day in Istanbul. If you are going to Istanbul and depth connect strongly recommend attending it's going to be a great event tons of excitement by the teams over there and a polygon is going to have a good presence of polygon Labs love a presence and hoping to meet members the community out there. The other big discussion was what the rip standard will look like what the process will be and kind of aligning on the first one and the first rip is the sccp 56 R1 precompile curve or EIP 7212. I know we're gonna be discussing that a bit later in this call as polygon as a separate governance process. I think it's a quantity. Maybe is the number that's under but adding that into PLS. So yeah.

**Jerome de Tychey:** Harry maybe we can talk about PIP 27 since it is closely related to the discussion. I don't know the agenda. I know it wasn't at the end of the list, but maybe we can hop quickly into the people this event discussion.

**Harry Rook:** Yeah, of course, of course.

**Dogan Alpaslan:** Actually, sorry about area and for the voice, I was planning to change the place before the meeting but it is raining and I cannot change. So yeah, I want to just introduce the PIP 27 which is the In polygon Improvement proposal standards and it follows the same specs within EIP 7212. and this PIP proposes a new compile contract for secp256r1 curve which also known as the b256 code. This curve is widely used in the web carrier, especially on the authentication side, like webos and paste and the current clave and many more and also it has been used in many ways in the internet and I can clearly say that the whole internet ecosystem is being secured by this girl and why are opening a native verification on the discourse side opens up a lot of way especially on that con managing side, for example wallets can use past Keys as they sign yourself to account or else they can use web Bots and based birthdays Authentication. It's and also they can use section claim directly via crypto kit or an Android like Trust on and other trust execution environments this increases the key management security and also it increases the security level of the account via this came management the only problem that we have with an EIP 7212 is that having a consensus over the  EIP and also we have another problem which is having a protocol change on the ethereum side. It's kind of problem and it needs a really good social coordination and also Community educating. This is why we want to propose this the IP as a relatively informal proposal standard and we have started to work within the casing and also as you can see polygon Improvement proposal it convert this EIP as in the rollup involvement proposal. And my requirement about this EIP is that the roll-up involvement proposal. The standard is going to be revealed between the first Dev connect event. But before this I really want to have the review from polygon site and I want to have your opinions especially on the core developer side to have the consensus over the verification and the other methods for this EIP. 

**Jerome de Tychey:** So what quick remark on that front for the sake of transparency my own company does a lot of things using a sected secp256r1. So I'm strongly supporting this EIP and this PIP as a whole because I think it's a major Improvement on the security of newly on boarded users from the web to space the discussion on the different forums was already the polygon forums or the Eternal magician forums is really heated that we have lots of different good arguments on why it's more secure what it's better and so on and so forth so it will be a kind of impossible to do some develop right here one important thing that Dohan mentioned is that there is a debate over whether we should do an interface with a verifier or we're verifying or with recovering the key. I don't think this is a disargumentation can be settled quickly, but perhaps the whole call one meeting in person Istanbul will be a good occasion to discuss this and agree on something whether we use the verify or the recover implementation.
Currently the naive implementation in solidity of such a verification would be around the 400,000 gas on the zkevm. You have some improvement due to predominal computation. Of course highly optimized implementation can get it down to 60 to 7 to 70k gas. And with the compile we go back into the couple of thousand gas as a reference. So that's a really really big Improvement. Also the debates on the layer one is more difficult because in the past we had a added different Ash functions different verification different signature and supports and with little to no usage on the application side. So I know for a fact that some call devs on the ethereum side are kind of lockwarm to a new curve before they prove any big traction on the L2 side at least and that's a good occasion for this kind of innovation to happen on L2 and then transcribing into L1. So yeah, once again, I'm strong support or in the PIP because that's a great improvement. I think and extension to this pip as well. And I think we can continue discussion here and have a quick ramp up.

**Dogan Alpaslan:** Yeah, I just wanted to also add something because I forgot to introduce myself. I'm working with Klay which is an account-abstraction based wallet and it's also uses the p256 curve and this should be paid before the introduction. and we also support this group verification because we are also working on it. And yeah this is just disclaimer about projects that I'm working.

**Harry Rook:** Okay, David. You want to go next? One question I had in mind is in terms of the Roll Call process like what needs to be cleared that before can kind of slow down.

**David Silverman:** Yeah, I was gonna bring it up as to say I think roll call the last deliverable we need from them from there is I would recommend waiting for roll call to come to termination on the verify versus recover interface. I defer to Paul gebheim from polygon research. She's on this call, but I think we are all for the verifi implementation which I believe is what currently is implemented in Geth and other clients. I would also just say from report out on polygon engineering on the form. You can see that both Brendan leads polygon zero effort as confirmed that it will not delay zkevm in a significant manner and Paul O'Leary who I don't know if it's on this call tends to oversee. On the POS side he doesn't believe it will cause a issue over there either. So assuming that call on the next roll call we get consents on the implementation would love to see this potentially going in the first hard fork of next year. I don't know if Paul G if you wanted to add anything on this front polygon researchers perspective.

**Paul Gebheim:** Just that from my perspective. I support the verifiable mutation. I feel like the recovery implementations that we already have in the evm or we're always a little bit weird. I know gas savings this and that but given that this is a chance to kind of do this from a perspective of 2023 and not 2014. I think it makes sense to put the verify implementation and also yes, we've checked in with the prover teams and doing supporting kind of either of these interfaces is not particularly difficult. Those should be able to be implemented in the provers which is good for everybody. So I feel really comfortable. I actually feel really excited about this. This is one of those things that just should have been able to be done years ago. Let's do it.

**David Silverman:** Is anything we need to do to have that tentatively scheduled for that not really hard Fork presuming the roll call Process wraps up or I don't know if there's a status change we have to call for.

**Harry Rook:** So they'll need to go through the review which you can align with the local process. Once you've done this we can schedule it within the hard fork next year he won at which point we'll move to what Paul once it gets to test net phase and then when someone will be final stage, so that's roughly the process.
Okay, So next up PIP-28, Sandeep. Did you want to a quick update on this?

**Sandeep Sreenath:** Yeah. So this time although the hard fork block did not face any issues soon after we hard fork we saw that bor crashed. The main reason was that there were some of quotes which were not intended to be included in the Agra hard fork, had been included. Although we had decided that we won't be including that because the Upstream priority it was a pretty big much so we had basically Overlook the one file where this was enabled soon one of the contacts which is using this code was triggered and that's when the nodes had crashed. So yeah, we were able to quickly identify the issue and roll out the fix as well. And now the Mumbai network is working Yeah. So one action item from our end probably will start working on a shadow Fork node, which is being done if I'm really so that we don't run into such issues in the future. Yeah, so any changes in the evm will first test it in these shadow foot modes for Mumbai as well as mainnet. And yeah, we should be able to catch such issues before even going to Mumbai. That's the plan but there are some challenges in that we have been working on this Shadow for of quite some time and there are some challenges there which we are anyway, looking at and prioritizing that apart from that,
Yeah, so all the three changes which are part of Agra hard Fork have been tested after it was rolled out in Mumbai and things are looking good. There are no issues as such. Yeah, and we'll probably wait for another couple of weeks. monitor that everything is working. Well on Mumbai before announcing the mainly dates. yeah, so assuming everything goes I think we should hit the same timelines as we had committed to earlier that's towards the end of November for me that.

**Harry Rook:** Yeah, I think the next pgc's on the 16th. So that lines well.

**Sandeep Sreenath:** Cool, can I quickly cover the new testnet because I need to jump onto another call sign. So I had brought up this topic briefly in the previous ppgc I guess and since you all might already know that go really is being duplicated. It's on the verge of duplication probably another couple of months. and since we are using gor relief as the L1 chain for our Mumbai testnet, we expect some destructions there. So before we hit such a point we would like to, create a new testament so that and with symbolia as the L1 chain all the background work, has started off just a couple of weeks ago and yeah, I think the status is that we have deployed the contracts on L1 chain, and we are in the process of bringing the initial set of nodes online. Yeah, and we will communicate with the community when obviously there is I remember coming to community we will have Enough slots for all the validators who are on Mumbai to be part of this new testament as well. Yeah, the name of the new testnet is it's called oi testnet. based on a Chinese City where one of our Engineers who worked on the migration comes from so yeah, that's regarding it and the other proposed dates I would say we are already working, on this and In another few weeks. We should have a few announcements mentioning. probably before the next PPC we have some updates to share.

**Harry Rook:** Yeah, thank you very much. Yeah, I mean as well as that I will probably need to rename the testnet committee to encompassing. any questions on that guys? If not, we can move on.
Okay, cool, so next time pip 25 a proposal to just the POLl token Supply David did you have some updates around Pitt progression and timelines for the testnet?

**David Silverman:** Yeah. Yeah, I guess depending on the date of the main net for Agra we would like to schedule the proposition of this to the protocol Council for execution about one week post. So that should give about a one-week period for the community to process all outstanding Matic Burns and assuming that those are our processed in a timely manner. We would like that to be executed or proposed to the protocol to execute pip 25 to be executed one week after the main net Activation. So would love to see 25 activated on testnet at any point going forward given that the agrihard forecast gone through so I probably wait one week to execute next Wednesday and take the same process for a main Network or one week post Aggra mainnet PIP 25 would be proposed to the protocol Council to activate. Capacity other major objection. Yeah.

**Harry Rook:** so question around, if we're migrating testnet, is there any considerations we need to make for the deployed contracts on Goerli or what's the think?

**David Silverman:** The switch would only occur on Goerli on the new Amoy test net. All of the Pips will have to be activated anyway, and so basically after the Agra hard Fork is activated on amoi we would just go back process Matic Burns and then activate of 25 so fresh start meetings, we have the ability to go through it. I will make sure that we coordinate would be a boy test net committee to ensure that this is done appropriately. At least for the timing for main Network which one I'll Focus here. Just calling it for one week post Agra.

**Tiago - Stakin:** Just one question. What if there is some major delay on amoy do you plan to postpone I guess?

**Sandeep Sreenath:** Yeah. 25 is tied to the network. So it wouldn't matter whenever a Boy comes through at this point. It's more of like 25 can only be activated once in Agra hard Fork has been activated on a given Network. And so, we've done the testing with Mumbai. I think we feel confident to a once Acres activated on mainnet activate to 25. This is a blocker for pip 19, which I know is the next discussion so Yeah.

**Harry Rook:** So David again at 19 if you have someplace on the pit and then ideas around testnet. as well

**David Silverman:** 19 is actually the past over to Daniel gretzke. No he gave an update last time if you wanted to give any further. updates there

**Daniel Gretzke:** We're putting in nothing really changed since the last call. Still going through testing. And I think it's all scheduled for q1, right?

**David Silverman:** Yeah, I think we're gonna discuss formal timing. Based on how the testing has been going forward. I wanted to confirm that we were comfortable with a test net period of either November 29th or December 6th for Mumbai activation of pip 19 and then a pretty, assuming all good and Main and activation on January 10th. So again, just review of pip 19 does this would change the gas to the native token of Polygon POS from Matic 2-pole, this is accomplished via an upgrade exclusively on the L1 side. So on the L1 bridge will be upgraded. to have additional mapping such that virgin Paul and virginmatic you result with the native token on POS. And then when you try to redeem POS back to the plasma virtual only receive whole on the output side. We've heard from several steps whose contracts will be affected. They think they'll be comfortable by this timeline wanted to kind of ask the validator community. If you're comfortable again those dates for testnet Mumbai activation would be November 29th December 6th, and may that this will be proposed to the protocol Council on January 10th. Obviously, these tend to date so we can continue to check in on these as we have a more and more pgcs as we get closer, but would like to start having some date that we can push the community towards if this feels comfortable with everyone.

**Harry Rook:** Maybe we can post it in one of the channels as well telegram and attempt to check there as well.

**Paul Gebheim:** I think that we just need to make sure that we get this out as widely as possible because That just in case somebody has some dependency on being able to withdraw matic and there's some time frame. It does make it tight for them around the holidays. I still think there's plenty of time but we just need to make sure that it's widely distributed. So I'm sure Silverman will do that. But other people talk to your friends.

**Harry Rook:** I think that rounds off PIP 19 discussion. So yeah last item. Downstream Cancun changes. So we've already did 27 some left today so we can perhaps summarize that and talk more about timelines, but there are some more changes I believe and that we're looking to include in that one.

**David Silverman:** Think Sandeep can speak to thisâ€¦ If you want to Sandeep. The changes that we're going to bring as part of the Cancun update. Is that just the opcode right and copy T start to load?

**Sandeep Sreenath:** Yeah, that's pretty much it. And if we are ready with sign to one to implementation.

**David Silverman:** I believe the timing we were looking for those just very high level is we're waiting for the Cancun activation on the ethereum test. That's so we would probably Target Mumbai to be at some point while aetherium is after the ethereum test that's completed. So either Corelli or sipoli or ideally both and then for mainnet we would not upgrade mainnet until after mainnet has undergone the Cancun activation there. We probably try to target within 30 days of the main activation.

**Harry Rook:** That rounds off all of the agenda items so Unless there are any other ad hoc points. If they want to raise or have questions, then we can wrap up.

**Jerome de Tychey:** Just a quick one on my end. I don't know if I missed this somewhere but there was something about the bread of the bridge. Yeah, I'll be 19 specifically. You're going to change the bridge contract goes on ethereum and polygon, right?

**David Silverman:** It's just on polygon. So this is an upgrade of the matic bridge specifically the plasma Bridge basically only controls Matic. But the idea is the upgrade would make it so that the native token of POS effectively becomes POL and so by bridging either Matic or pull over to POS you would receive the native token. And then when you try to redeem the native token, you would only receive poll.

**Jerome de Tychey:** So  the token for the plasma Bridge are Matic token. If I'm not mistaken, they should be renamed pMatic again in this case as well.

**David Silverman:** I don't recall them being named that but I will sync with the team.

**Jerome de Tychey:** Okay, in 2022, we had a couple of studies about the different tokens that were bridged for security reasons. And we saw some discrepancy between how those stockings were Bridge. I'd love to have a quick discussion. If you are on telegram or somewhere just to raise those concept that previously we brought them to the security team of polygon in 2022. It was dim the really minor but if there is a way to package those changes in modification in the great I would love to have a second advisor. I think you look so let's chat on telegram or somewhere about those things.

**David Silverman**: yep, I'll make sure we sync on this but yeah, definitely make sure we get everything in our ducks in our

**Jerome de Tychey:** Yeah, cool.

Harry Rook: Okay, perfect. So that wraps it up for this session. Next call is on the 16th of November. So hope to see you all there. We'll have some more discussion on the protocol Council potentially and how it will interact with decisions. So that'll be interesting. 

#### Meeting ended after 00:34:04 ðŸ‘‹

