## Polygon Protocol Governance Call (2023-09-21 16:04 GMT+1) - Transcript

### Attendees
Anastassis Oikonomopoulos, Artiona Bogo, Daniel Gretzke, David Silverman, Fireflies.ai Notetaker Michel, George Serntedakis, Harry Rook, Jackson Lewis, Joonkyo Kim, Mateusz Rzeszowski, Matt Nathanson, Michel Muniz, Mirella Guglielmi, Nimit Bavishi, Nimit Bavishi's Presentation, Paul Gebheim, Paul Gebheim's Presentation, Paul O'Leary, Quentin de Beauchesne, Sandeep Sreenath, Sandeep Sreenath's Presentation, Scott Lilliston, staking 4all, Tiago - Stakin, Vincent Taglia, WebDev StakeWorks

# Transcript

#### This editable transcript was computer generated and might contain errors. People can also change the text after it was created.

**Harry Rook:** Okay, Welcome everyone. To the 8th installment of the PPGC two main buckets.So the first being the 3 PIPs that were released in relation to polygon 2.0, So that's PIP 17, 18 19. And we've got Paul G and Daniel Gretzke on the call to discuss that in more detail. And then, secondly, we're going to discuss the Aalborg Hard Fork on Mainnet, which went live on Mumbai on the 9th of September. And today, we're going to be coordinating some dates around the mainnet release. So those are the two main buckets.Without further ado, let's kick it off. First of all, I'll hand it over to Paul G. 
**Paul Gebheim:** So last week, we announced these three Pips 17, 18 19. So, Frontier, here is the really high level one. So, although it is the third in that order, it's probably worth starting here. If you're interested in looking at what we're actually talking about.
The idea is that we actually target these four main objectives with PIP 18. This is the frontier PIP. The idea here is that we want to start working toward getting the POS network in alignment with the new POL token upgrade. So what we need to do is that we need to sort of initiate this process of having the POL upgrade. We need to set up a process so the POS chain itself can be upgraded from Matic to POL as it's gas token and we have details of how to do that.
The next steps are a little bit more in the future and these will be having POL as the staking token for the POS chain and also launching of the staking layer. So I think previously we've referred to it as the staking there and the staking hub in conversations, this will be one of the first chains to be able to use the staking layer to use POL. And it will be kind of the place where we'll prove out how other chains can also use the staking layer to participate in the whole polygon ecosystem. So, the goal with this is really to set the stage in a lot of ways. So, when we're talking about all of these Various actions here. The idea is that with this upgraded POL token, there's some changes that need to happen and we're trying to just move things incrementally forward towards what polygon 2.0 wants to be the full polygon 2.0 vision. When we get there, includes these other items that we've talked about. Previously, the interoper layer, all these chains, having zk, proofs etc. But what we have right now is not quite that. What we have right now is the same set of chains that we currently have and the upgrades to be talking about today, but moved over to staking layer and based on a new token.
I'm wondering if anybody has any kind of particular questions about what the goals of this are or anything else needs to be gone into other than that, If there aren't any specific questions, it's pretty high level. And so it's definitely worth a read to understand what this looks like. I think the really important takeaway is that they're sort of major milestones that will be starting with actually upgrading initiating. This POL upgrade means having the whole token contracts available with all the migration contracts. So that upgrades can begin for people migrating to this gas token and moving to the staking layer and then ultimately providing staking for the pos chain in Poll instead of mattock isn't currently? Yes. So those are the four to keep in mind but I'm wondering if there's any other specific questions on this.
Harry was there anything on the forum that we thought we should answer?
**Harry Rook:** Yeah, I believe there were some questions around the emissions, but they were related to the economic model from the POL White Paper. But let me try and  find some specific ones.
**Paul Gebheim:** Specifically for talking about the emissions and economic model, I think we should probably wait a little bit because one of the things that's happening is that as the POL token, now that we have this POL token PIP out,, it's starting to cook a little bit and people are actually giving feedback, you'll see that we've already made some changes to it.
I can answer this though. We've actually already made one change to the pull token PIP, which included the permit too. So I wouldn't be surprised if we were able to get some feedback on some of this other stuff too. And what emissions and exactly that works and get it clarified. Since POL will be the gas token on,the current POS, the tokens will coexist. So the way that the gas token upgrade is proposed, is that what would happen is that all the MATIC, that backs, the native token of POS is stored in the plasma bridge. So there's a bunch of MATIC as a token on Mainnet. That's stored in the plasma bridge and then there's a bunch of native tokens on the POS chain. The idea is that in order to make POL the gas token, what that really means is that the underlining native tokens on the POS chain represent  the need to be changed to MATIC to POL at the bridge level. So the proposal there is that we do a change to the bridge such that when users withdraw from the bridge instead of receiving matic, they receive POL.
What that means is that technically speaking pull and medic do coexist at all times, but the native token, the asset of the chain could be switched over to be POL kind of transparently behind the scenes. And so all of the gas and all of those assets, would kind of just, change with no change to any user, it would just be a transparent upgrade technically speaking on Ethereum, both the MATIC and the POL tokens do coexist and in the Pip 17 For the Paul token you'll notice that There's an upgrade path and an upgrade back. It's a directional migration between those two tokens to begin. because both these tokens do exist or they're ones it tends to be an upgrade of the other and we recognize those that just will exist on the theory of may not. But as we
Toward this actually kind of being fully fleshed out. All of those assets would be just transparently upgraded on the POS chain.
Does that make sense?
**Harry Rook:** Hey, we've got another question.
**David Silverman:** I can take the answer for the burn.
Yeah, so for the burn, one of the things is that you find in the PIP, I believe it is PIP 19 because it is changing the plasma bridge. It is going to change how the burn is executed in the short term, we intend to be putting a PIP out shortly. That specifies some changes to 1559. There's still the intention to burn. We just need to temporarily pause the bridging of mattock back over to ethereum as the bridge undergoes change. But the burn fees will still be collected on the pos side and then As Paul over and burnt in the longer term, I believe due to community feedback on the PIP 17 As well. There will be, a adjustment that is done on the migrator to also burn the corresponding whole schematic that has been burned that final calculation of what to burn needs to be done after we do the change. But more details on the burn, will be revealed in a PIP coming shortly. I think the authors are finishing it up just confirming with engineers that the wording is correct, but the burn is being taken into account and it will still continue. It's just not being burning, matic, you're bad at burning Pole.
**Harry Rook:** Okay, we'll get a question from Nimit. I guess the rewards on each chain for staking will continue to be made for validators. And delegators till the MATIC contract is upgraded, but the transaction fees and polygon switch to Paul. Did I understand that right? Yeah.
**David Silverman:** that is correct.
**Paul Gebheim:** Yeah, that is correct. The pull emissions. I believe a portion is for validator rewards. Is this new validator portion? The same as the portion we currently see on, Pos David. Do you know the answer that off? Top of your head?
**David Silverman:** So yeah. this one percent emissions will be converted into MATIC and then dropped into the staking contract and it will look like matic the same way that you all currently paid out. I don't know the exact emissions percentage, but I believe it's in a similar ballpark. what the rate would decay to as part of the existing matic emission schedule. yeah.
**Harry Rook:** Brilliant. If that's all the questions answered on the high level stuff. I think we can get into some more detail on the actual poll token contracts.
**David Silverman:** A quick question is here, POL is effectively, it's not even like pegged MATIC. It is an upgraded form of it. The canonical, migration contract offers direct one-to-one in both directions. So we would be a very hard, secondary peg, one to one on ease. And then, as we mentioned for PoS, the upgrade is occurring transparently. So all liquidity pools instantaneously, switch to being denominated in POL, as for secondary like Dex centralized exchange markets, we can't speak to that depends on listings etc. But you are guaranteed on chained on a one to one peg. through the canonical contract, as to what happens, secondary markets, we cannot talk about.
**Paul Gebheim:** Yeah, and if you'd like to verify that, so in the token we actually do list the current contract implementation here. And then we also link to the Github repo Regency though. So you can see that if we call it migration and on migration. So yeah you can go both directions.
So let's see. The important part here for PIP 17 is that there's been a little bit of community feedback already. So, the first piece David already touched on, which is that it was pointed out that as a part of the 1559 burn situation There's already been an existing set of burns mattock from the 1559 process and that's already happened on L1. So we're going to add a change to during the 1559 process. Also burn all of that matter that's been already burnt, so that we don't have a supply.
**David Silverman:** Multiple. Yeah,â€¦
**Paul Gebheim:** Yeah, that matters that was a very good call out. We appreciate that. Lots of details here and it's good to see people also have them in their brains. The other one is that there has been leave since this was posted. There was another change, which is allowing by to transfer tokens. So, Daniel wrote this up real fast. So this is a UX improvement that comes from the units, the permit to contract from Uniswap Labs, which allows you to kind of approve the permit to contract and that is then able to move your tokens for you comes with some really good UX benefits. So I think this is a really good example of why it's good to do all this stuff in public. Because both of those things, came out of the discussion that we had in the community, a little bit on timelines for this. So we currently have two active audits of the current implementation that's happening. We're also still, waiting more feedback and talk to more ecosystem, participants about this and so there's a bit of a timeline on when this could become available and that's in
Post audits being completed and that's, in a wanted couple of month, time frame, probably when those will be fully completed and we want to definitely have enough time for this to bake with the community. So we don't have a firm date for anybody here yet because we need to have those things go through first. But we are as far as we know right now completely done with the implementation as specified.
**Harry Rook:** Also, thank you very much Paul. Dan. Did you have any points you wanted to add there? All you think we can move on?
**Daniel Gretzke:** I think in the emission, it's working out that it's 2% compounding per year and it will go to The community treasury and half of it will go to the stake manager or current staking contract later on. It will be going with POLl to the new staking layer. That is introduced and PIP 18.
All right, in that case, I will continue with Pip, 19 is pretty sure as you can see, essentially, This will auto convert any mattock into Paul that is bridged. And essentially there are three scenarios, right? If you Deposit MATIC into the bridge. That means that MATIC will be automatically migrated to Paul and then bridge over to the Polygon network. And then there, you will get the native token. The second option is deposit Paul into the plasma bridge and then it will also be bridged over and you'll be receiving native tokens. and third case is you have native tokens on Polygon Poss and you withdraw them to Ethereum and then in that case you'll get Paul, instead of matic, but you would get now.
This is essentially everything that's changing. There's also means that anyone currently holding the native token MATIC on Polygon PoS will not notice anything of any of these changes. Only when they bridge back, they will see that they don't have MATIC anymore but they have POL, but they don't need to migrate, the don't need to do anything. the ones who are affected by this change, are smart contracts that are Currently receiving medic from the plasma bridge. in this case, you might be expecting to receive medic in your smart contract, but you would receive Paul which would require you to migrate to a new contract to upgrade to accommodate for this change. but in the majority of contracts like multisigs, where you have full control over any asset inside of the contract, this shouldn't be an issue at all. We're also in touch with bridges and anyone else utilizing this to resolve any? Issues and work on migration paths. But as always, if you are affected by this, you can reach out and then we will see how we can get your migrated, or if you are affected at all. Yeah.

**David Silverman:** Just to answer,â€¦
I was gonna take the question from the chat there for users or stake during the upgrade. there's no change in rewards at all, based on the pips that have been specified today on 17, 18, and 19 when it actually comes, time to migrate the validator set to Paul, then there will be more information on how that's staking it on staking and rewards or changing. But at least in the short-term upgrades and specified, the launch of the POL token, the POS in need of migration which is what we're discussing out at 19. This is not affect the valley or set at all whatsoever outside of potentially, eating to run a newer client to cover somebody changes.
**Daniel Gretzke:** Happy to take more questions if there are me.
**Harry Rook:** Okay, I think we can wrap up the 2.0 discussion for today. for more in-depth, forts. I've linked all the forum posts in the chat so you can discuss those there. And I think we can move on to the Mumbai Committee now so like I was saying before Aalborg went live on Mumbai on the 9th of September, we had some pretty solid feedback from the committee on the last call. Who's going to give a brief report on the current situation on Mumbai?
**Nimit Bavishi:** Hi everybody, good to meet everyone. So folks, I am from ard Granar nodes. We have one of the members of the Mumbai Committee and thanks for folks, kind of inviting us into kind of walk through this Jackson Harry, and everyone to come walk through the latest update that we're seeing on the Mumbai Testnet. As you can see in the screen, all of us are running on different infrastructure from AWS Benadryl. Kubernetes GCP and Novi.
So that we can figure out, what the problems are before things go live across different types of machines. This is by  no means comprehensive but this lastly covers the most often run configurations. So, this is just a quick report on what happened when we tried to meet the bread go through, as you can see a little bit of fancy stuff that I did in the right essentially, what the three hugs do.
So we just went through a quick update. I think it's been two or three days. I've been observing the logs around this time. There are three infrastructure that went really well so that's Aws, Bare Metal and Kubernets. All smooth no issues. I think there was one issue. Around Kubernetes which is one error log. But this may not be an infrastructure issue, it might just be something that went wrong during the upgrade that was faced by dear friends, sake pool there, which is an error log. In the bar I think it's resolution that around that we implemented was restoring the general snapshot This era was not replicated so we really don't know what kind of cost it but so far as resorts it seems all good.
**Nimit Bavishi:** On GCP though we are facing one smaller issue. We're working the resolution which is an error in Heimdall which says Invalid Master message. This is actually carrying us a legacy from the previous block I think once we get that fixed we'll have more reports out on it soon for Proton Gaming and for Making Cash.
All right, so we will be having more updates coming out that's primarily on Docker and Ovh. I think there are a few issues on getting Docker life with our friends at Proton Gaming. Once we have that sorted and there is a documentation that's coming out on that very soon, that should be fairly easy for folks to deploy and take upgrades live but all in also for the bridge seem to be going really smooth, minor issues, nothing major. So we should be able to kind of take this life. Hopefully, I was gonna team decides to the main chain. I'll leave the slide on for folks. Any questions?
**Sandeep Sreenath:** Yeah, I just had a quick question. So you mentioned this in error, login, milestone message, timeout. Was this happening before the Hard Fork on Mumbai? Or is it even after the Hard Fork?
**Nimit Bavishi:** Right before the Hard Fork, it was pretty much not hitting the URL because it didn't exist. But right after the Hard Fork,  it run smooth for some time and I think after around the last upgrade, post the hard floor is when it started giving the issue. We don't know what the issues is. We work in the team to figure out the resolution. I think some of that information might have flown to you back to Sandeep, so that's where it is.

**Sandeep Sreenath:** Okay, and it's like a one of thing, right? It's not coming continuously.
**Nimit Bavishi:** It's consistent.
**Sandeep Sreenath:** It's consistent. Okay.
**Nimit Bavishi:** It just might be something that's gone wrong with our upgrade. It might not be linked to the infrastructure but we just want to give it a shot before. We just clean the chain and restore it from a snapshot like stakeholder.
**Sandeep Sreenath:** Recorded. Yeah, Thanks for reporting. We will also take a look at this.
**Harry Rook:** Thank you very much. I appreciate that. Also, So let's move on next to the Aalborg Fork, so let me link the Aalborg PIP. In the chat and Sandeep, I don't know. If you want to give a brief overview of timeline perspective, timelines for the elbow fork, what we're proposing to include in the fork and yeah,
**Sandeep Sreenath:** Sure, Yeah, I'm also sharing it on screen the same PIP that you will link to. I think most of you all are aware of the hard fork, which happened on him, dial on the Mumbai, testnet. Around 10 days ago, and a quick update on that. So we've been seeing some very good results. After the milestones rollout, The finality time or the number of blocks for finality has, come down to around 40 to 50 blocks? That's consistently. We are getting around 40 to 50 blocks which is less than two minutes which is a huge ux and moment that we are seeing on Mumbai and we hope the same thing will follow on main it as well.
There have been a few issues that were raised, even before the hard fork. And after we write after the hard folk by a couple of partners, and we have addressed. Most of them Nimit was sharing the 104, which is the latest tag that was released has all the bug fixes that we have come across And also encourage everybody to also report more issues, if there are any so that we are able to release a very stable tag for Mainnet. and yeah.
Regarding the PIP itself, this PIP is to enable the hard for one minute and the block number has been set to 15 million 950,759, which is expected to be mind on around October 9th. So this time we have added some additional buffer because last time what we saw on Mumbai was that the block time had significantly reduced on heimdal after we released the new version on all our nodes. So this time it's a range that we are giving it could be around ninth to 11th, but video most probably we will be hitting the lock on around 10th of October.
So yeah, this, the short just to enable the hard fork and yeah, I guess I've covered PIP 11 enough times on this ppgc earlier, so I'm not getting into any more details there.
Yeah, I think apart from that, there's the other set of changes that we are working on currently for which we have some tentative timelines. So there is also going to be an upcoming hard fork on board where we would enable the Shanghai changes. So if you're observing basically the one zero Zero Beta tag. Already contained all the upstream changes from get, which has the Shanghai, eapes all these except for one which is not relevant to the polygon and pos chain. So the idea would be to enable the Shanghai AI piece and also, we have another 20, which is a feature that, it's a proposal to, have
Better visibility of states in transactions on the Level 2 On the child chain. So, Yeah, basically, I mean, just to cover this in brief. So currently if there are any states in transactions, which occur on the L1 chain, so they also run on L2, but then if anything like if there is a failure, the DAP developers never come to know about it because of lack of logging basically, so what we are proposing in this PIP is, there'll be an additional event, the state committed event, which will be emitted, whenever there is any states in transaction, which is, replayed on the board chain. And based on the event data, you would know whether it has succeeded or it has failed. So yeah, it's a very simple addition that we have to do, but then I think it would definitely improve the UX and the visibility for the developers as well so that they can take next steps like code for some failover scenarios because they are getting to know when there is a failure. So yeah the idea is in this hard for in the hard fork or to enable these two pips and any other groups that would be ready by then. So, I guess. Yeah. And then the high level timelines. we have planning this towards the end of November on Mainnet, so we still have a good amount of time for that. yeah. Anything else you wanted me to cover Harry?
**Harry Rook:** Okay, that wraps everything up for this installment. Next ppgc will be two weeks time, 5th of October. So potentially a few days before the Mainnet release of the Aalborg Hard Fork. So it'll be all hands on deck for that one and there'll be more discussion on Polygon 2.0 So yeah, I hope to see you guys there and thank you all for joining.

## Meeting ended after 00:33:36 ðŸ‘‹
