PIPs/PIP-42.md, before:

---
PIP: 42
Title: Polygon 2.0 - Upgrade PoS Staking to Use POL
Description: Upgrade to Emissions Manager contract for Direct POL Emissions
Author: Simon Dosch, Zero Ekkusu, David Silverman, Paul Gebheim, Paul O'Leary
Discussion: https://forum.polygon.technology/t/pip-41-enable-direct-pol-emissions-to-stakemanager-sol/17642
Status: Last Call
Type: Contracts
Date: 2024-06-25
---

## Abstract

This proposal calls for upgrading the staking contract for the Polygon PoS network to change from using MATIC (0x7d1afa7b718fb893db30a3abc0cfc608aacfebb0) as the primary staking token to POL in a method that ensures maximum backward compatibility. The authors recommend this by upgrading the PoS Stake Manager Contract `0x5e3Ef299fDDf15eAa0432E6e66473ace8c13D908` to a new implementation at `0x97a3500083348A147F419b8a65717909762c389f` that:

* Converts all the MATIC in the Stake Manager to POL
* Uses POL for all new staking and unstaking requests
* Will still allow for using existing functions when staking and unstaking MATIC by leveraging the POL Migration Contract `0x29e7DF7b6A1B2b07b731457f499E1696c60E2C4e` to preserve maximum backward compatibility.
* Adds new POL functions wherever necessary. These can be used to stake using the new POL token

This proposed upgrade will not change any contracts on the Polygon PoS Network. Likewise, all other properties about staking (reward rate, unbonding period, slashing etc.) will remain unchanged.

## Motivation

The staking token is the token which stakers and validators of the Polygon PoS network use to secure the network, and come to consensus on the state. The present staking token is MATIC which was set as the staking token upon genesis of the Polygon PoS network. Now that POL `0x455e53CBB86018Ac2B8092FdCd39d8444aFFC3F6` is live, the authors propose setting it as the staking token of the network via an upgrade of the Stake Manager in a maximally backward compatible manner.

## Specification

Upgrade the StakeManagerProxy contract to a new implementation at `0x97a3500083348A147F419b8a65717909762c389f`.  
Upgrade the ValidatorShareProxy beacon proxies by updating the `ValidatorShare` entry in the Registy to `0x053fa9b934b83e1e0ffc7e98a41aadc3640bb462`.

As an example for the new ...POL functions, `buyVoucher` still exists and we can now also use `buyVoucherPOL` which both call the same function internally, the only difference being that the first one will trigger a migrate call to exchange MATIC for POL before moving on:
```
function buyVoucher(uint256 _amount, uint256 _minSharesToMint) public returns (uint256 amountToDeposit) {
    return _buyVoucher(_amount, _minSharesToMint, false);
}

function buyVoucherPOL(uint256 _amount, uint256 _minSharesToMint) public returns (uint256 amountToDeposit) {
    return _buyVoucher(_amount, _minSharesToMint, true);
}
```

## Backward Compatibility

Systems that expect to stake and unstake MATIC from the PoS Staking system will be affected unless they move to using the new legacy functions.

## Security Considerations

This upgrade adjusts a core contract of the Polygon PoS network. All proper security procedures including necessary audits will be taken, and should be carefully reviewed prior to activation.

## References

* [PIP-17: Polygon Ecosystem Token (POL)](https://github.com/maticnetwork/Polygon-Improvement-Proposals/blob/main/PIPs/PIP-17.md)
* [PIP-18: Polygon 2.0 Phase 0 - Frontier](https://github.com/maticnetwork/Polygon-Improvement-Proposals/blob/main/PIPs/PIP-18.md)

## Copyright

All copyrights and related rights in this work are waived under CC0 1.0 Universal.

Commit message:

docs(pip-42): update backward compatiblity

PIPs/PIP-42.md, after:

---
PIP: 42
Title: Polygon 2.0 - Upgrade PoS Staking to Use POL
Description: Upgrade to Emissions Manager contract for Direct POL Emissions
Author: Simon Dosch, Zero Ekkusu, David Silverman, Paul Gebheim, Paul O'Leary
Discussion: https://forum.polygon.technology/t/pip-41-enable-direct-pol-emissions-to-stakemanager-sol/17642
Status: Last Call
Type: Contracts
Date: 2024-06-25
---

## Abstract

This proposal calls for upgrading the staking contract for the Polygon PoS network to change from using MATIC (0x7d1afa7b718fb893db30a3abc0cfc608aacfebb0) as the primary staking token to POL in a method that ensures maximum backward compatibility. The authors recommend this by upgrading the PoS Stake Manager Contract `0x5e3Ef299fDDf15eAa0432E6e66473ace8c13D908` to a new implementation at `0x97a3500083348A147F419b8a65717909762c389f` that:

* Converts all the MATIC in the Stake Manager to POL
* Uses POL for all new staking and unstaking requests
* Will still allow for using existing functions when staking and unstaking MATIC by leveraging the POL Migration Contract `0x29e7DF7b6A1B2b07b731457f499E1696c60E2C4e` to preserve maximum backward compatibility.
* Adds new POL functions wherever necessary. These can be used to stake using the new POL token

This proposed upgrade will not change any contracts on the Polygon PoS Network. Likewise, all other properties about staking (reward rate, unbonding period, slashing etc.) will remain unchanged.

## Motivation

The staking token is the token which stakers and validators of the Polygon PoS network use to secure the network, and come to consensus on the state. The present staking token is MATIC which was set as the staking token upon genesis of the Polygon PoS network. Now that POL `0x455e53CBB86018Ac2B8092FdCd39d8444aFFC3F6` is live, the authors propose setting it as the staking token of the network via an upgrade of the Stake Manager in a maximally backward compatible manner.

## Specification

Upgrade the StakeManagerProxy contract to a new implementation at `0x97a3500083348A147F419b8a65717909762c389f`.  
Upgrade the ValidatorShareProxy beacon proxies by updating the `ValidatorShare` entry in the Registy to `0x053fa9b934b83e1e0ffc7e98a41aadc3640bb462`.

As an example for the new ...POL functions, `buyVoucher` still exists and we can now also use `buyVoucherPOL` which both call the same function internally, the only difference being that the first one will trigger a migrate call to exchange MATIC for POL before moving on:
```
function buyVoucher(uint256 _amount, uint256 _minSharesToMint) public returns (uint256 amountToDeposit) {
    return _buyVoucher(_amount, _minSharesToMint, false);
}

function buyVoucherPOL(uint256 _amount, uint256 _minSharesToMint) public returns (uint256 amountToDeposit) {
    return _buyVoucher(_amount, _minSharesToMint, true);
}
```

## Backward Compatibility

Backward compatibility has been preserved by internally converting MATIC to POL in the existing functions.

## Security Considerations

This upgrade adjusts a core contract of the Polygon PoS network. All proper security procedures including necessary audits will be taken, and should be carefully reviewed prior to activation.

## References

* [PIP-17: Polygon Ecosystem Token (POL)](https://github.com/maticnetwork/Polygon-Improvement-Proposals/blob/main/PIPs/PIP-17.md)
* [PIP-18: Polygon 2.0 Phase 0 - Frontier](https://github.com/maticnetwork/Polygon-Improvement-Proposals/blob/main/PIPs/PIP-18.md)

## Copyright

All copyrights and related rights in this work are waived under CC0 1.0 Universal.
